9/27/2023: Hello! I’ve recently gotten into racing, specifically Formula 1. It feels like the perfect combination of all my interests and everything I am good at so 
I figured I would start this side project as a way to increase my knowledge of the sport, the mechanisms behind the car, and what goes into having a successful race 
weekend. Obviously, I am not an expert nor do I claim to be. Nor do I have access to all of the data, technology, and know-how as the teams or even someone who has 
followed the sport for longer does. I do, as a result, have to make a lot of simplifications. I will do my best to acknowledge it when I have to make one. These posts
are just a way for me to ask some questions about Formula 1, hopefully, get some fairly accurate answers, work on my technical skills, and learn more about a sport I 
enjoy watching. Constructive feedback is welcome! (also if you are aware of any interesting or exciting resources, please let me know!) 

What if I started posting about F1 and what I’ve learned so far?

For my first post, I thought I would go with what grew my interest in F1. The incredible Hannah Schmitz of Oracle Red Bull Racing has brought the spotlight onto the
strategy teams in F1 and how outthinking your opponent is key to a victory. As we have seen over countless races, having the fastest car is not good enough. You can 
have the fastest car and not win because your race strategy falls apart (which is one reason why F1 is so fascinating to me!). So what is F1 strategy and what goes 
into making a strategy? This is information that I have gathered as teams (understandingly) don’t want to share exactly how they go about making a strategy. A team’s
strategy is their plan of how they’re going to win the race. It includes pit stops and tire management, safety car predictions and the resulting pivots, weather 
delays, and almost anything predictable that could affect the race. The more exciting a race is for fans (more overtakes) the more split-second decisions the team’s 
strategists have to make. The car, the driver, and their driving style all affect the strategists’ decision. Does a driver feel confident in their tires and tire 
management to go for the overcut strategy or is pitting early to get clean air their preferred action? How close is the driver to the pit lane entrance and can the 
pit crew get ready in time? (no forgotten tires here please!) My personal favorite question is, what are the other teams doing and saying on their radios, and can 
you trust that information? (insert Lewis “Bono, my tires are dead” Hamilton). I do wonder in creating a strategy, how heavily past races impact the plan. Knowing 
that in the past 5 Silverstone GPs, there has been at least one safety car deployment, does that cause the strategist to create more plans with safety cars accounted
for? With AI and machine learning, teams can process and create new plans extremely quickly, but how many plans are created ahead of time? How many small nuances can
they account for? How do they pick between what the computer says and what a driver's gut feeling is? Strategy is currently the most intriguing part of F1 to me and 
so most of the next posts will be related to strategy in F1. Strategy to me, means turning racing into a game, a more complicated version of chess. Can you get 
inside your opponent's head and think like them? Can you predict what they’re going to do before they do it? Or does a team more focus on themselves and go for the 
“well, if we’re in first then our strategy is just to stay in first” plan? I acknowledge that this post has more questions than answers, but I thought it would be a
good introduction to more questions I would like to answer. Future posts will include charts and code. Thanks for reading! I appreciate any resources, ideas, 
questions, advice, or conversations related to F1 or sports strategy in general.
