9/29/2023: What if F1 ranked their tracks based on downforce levels?

I think it’s a fair assumption to say that one of the reasons F1 is so exciting week in and week out is that we get to race at a different track every weekend. 
This results in varying car setups, grid placements, tire degradation, racing strategies, and cars and teams being better suited to certain tracks. Downforce tracks,
power tracks, Red Bull tracks, and Mercedes tracks are becoming commonly used terms to describe a track. Downforce tracks are, as the name suggests, tracks that are 
better suited to high downforce cars. These tracks usually have shorter and fewer straights and faster corners. The tradeoff is in power. Setting a car up with 
higher downforce leads to more drag and less power (less time spent close to full throttle). As there is not a track without a straight (well, maybe Monaco), so 
power does still play a role. In creating this ranking I looked at the number of corners vs straights, the speed of the corners, what type of package teams usually 
bring, and altitude. As I am planning on ranking the tracks later based on power and tire degradation, I did take these factors less into account, but I fully 
acknowledge that in setting up the cars, you have to take into account all three (and much more). Hopefully, as I learn more about F1 and the cars, I’ll be able to 
update this to be more accurate and give the reasoning behind it. 

Highest to lowest racks based on downforce for the 2023 season:
Adapted from Tony Smith’s Sportsdud ranking 

Monaco 
Singapore 
Mexico 
Brazil-Hungary-Australia -Silverstone
Spain-Miami 
Abu Dhabi-Austria-Austin
Suzuka
Qatar
SPA-Azerbaijan-Bahrain 
Zandvoort -Saudi Arabia 
Montreal
Monza 

Wild card: Las Vegas - I would place this track as a lower downforce course. I think it’ll be a really fast race that aims to be similar to Monza where power is 
more important, but time will tell!


Resources used:
https://sportsdud.com/f1-tracks-list-of-power-tracks/
